FROM THE TISH WNET STUDIOS I
NEW YORK, HARI SREENIVASAN
>> WE BEGIN WITH A STORM THAT IS
STILL UNFOLDING.
THE STORM SPAWNED TORNADOS THA
DID EXTENSIVE DAMAGE IN TH
SMALL CENTRAL ILLINOIS COMMUNITY
OF WASHINGTON.
IN CHICAGO, TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
FANS ATTENDING THE RAVENS/BEAR
FOOTBALL GAME WERE ADVISED T
LEAVE THE STANDS AND TAKE COVER.
THE GAME WERE SUSPENDED FO
NEARLY TWO HOURS
THE STORMS, WHICH ARE UNUSUA
FOR THIS TIME OF YEAR, ALS
NEW PICTURES OF THE FEROCIOU
STORM THAT HAS NOW CLAIMED MOR
THAN 4,000 LIVES IN TH
PHILIPPINES.
ANOTHER 1,000 ARE STILL MISSING.
PRESIDENT BENENO AQUINO WHO HA
BEEN WIDELY CRITICIZED FOR THE
SLOW DELIVERY OF AID ARRIVED I
THE CITY OF TACLOBAN WHERE
DAMAGE IS SEVERE AND HE SAYS
HE'LL STAY THERE UNTIL DAMAG
IMPROVES
>> Translator: WHEN IT COMES T
NATURAL DISASTERS, ALL WE CAN DO
IS PRAY, BUT IT IS ALS
IMPORTANT TO DO ALL THAT WE CAN.
>> BUT OTHERS CONTINUE TO FLEE
THE STRICKEN CITY.
>> WE'VE BEEN HERE YESTERDAY
SINCE EARLY MORNING.
WE HAVE NOT BEEN TO EAT AN
WE'RE STRUGGLING
>> FOR MORE FROM THE
PHILIPPINES, WE HEAR ONCE AGAI
TONIGHT VIEYA SKYPE FROM BARNABY
LOW.
HE'S A FREELANCE JOURNALIS
WHO'S BEEN REPORTING THE STORY
SINCE THE SUPERSTORM STRUCK NINE
DAYS AGO
>> REMEMBER, I'M A FOREIGN
CORRESPONDENT.
I WORK FOR THE FOREIGN MEDIA
BUT I'M ALSO FILIPINO AND I GREW
UP HERE.
AND IT'S HEARTBREAKING FOR ME TO
SEE MY COUNTRYMEN SUFFER THI
MUCH
BECAUSE I'VE HAD MY SHARE OF
COVERING THESE TYPHOONS AN
THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF SUFFERING,
OBVIOUSLY.
THIS COUNTRY HAS HAD TO SUFFER
SO MUCH BECAUSE OF ALL OF THES
NATURAL CALAMITIES, BUT NOT AT
THIS LEVEL
AND THIS IS NOT JUST AT TACLOBAN
CITY
THIS IS EVERYWHERE THIS TYPHOO
HAS AFFECTED
I MEAN, WE WENT TO THE NORTH
AND WE WERE IN A VAN MOVING, AND
WHEN WE STOPPED, PEOPLE, IT WA
JUST THIS MOB OF PEOPLE WHO WENT
UP TO OUR VAN, THEY RUSHED T
OUR VAN, AND THEY WERE JUS
TRYING TO OPEN THE DOOR OF OUR
VAN AND TRYING TO OPEN THE
WINDOW OF OUR VAN, JUS
DESPERATE FOR FOOD AND WATER
I GAVE THEM SOME
OBVIOUSLY, I DIDN'T HAVE ENOUGH.
SO WE RAN AND THEY CHASED US
THEY TRIED TO CHASE US
THAT'S HOW DESPERATE THE
SITUATION IS
EIGHT OR NINE DAYS IS A VERY
LONG TIME TO WAIT IF YOU'VE GO
NOTHING TO EAT AND NOTHING T
DRINK.
BUT I DO UNDERSTAND TH
SENTIMENT OF THESE PEOPLE, BUT I
ALSO DO UNDERSTAND THAT THIS I
VERY OVERWHELMING FOR TH
FILIPINO GOVERNMENT, EVEN THOUGH
WE'RE USED TO DISASTERS, THIS IS
A DISASTER OF A WHOLE DIFFEREN
LEVEL, REALLY.
>>> IN SYRIA, A DEADLY BOMBING
TARGETED SOURCES LOYAL TO TH
ASSAD REGIME
A BRITISH HUMAN RIGHTS GROUP
SAID 31 SYRIAN TROOPS INCLUDIN
THREE GENERALS WERE KILLED I
THE ATTACKS NEAR DAMASCUS.
THE INCIDENT COINCIDES WITH
MAJOR GOVERNMENT OFFENSIVE NEA
THE CAPITOL CITY
ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER BENJAMI
NETANYAHU HAS ISSUED A NEW
WARNING ABOUT A DEAL THAT WOUL
FREEZE IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM IN
EXCHANGE FOR THE EASING OF SOM
SANCTIONS.
NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN IRAN AN
THE WESTERN POWERS, INCLUDIN
THE UNITED STATES, RESUME IN
GENEVA, SWITZERLAND, LATER THI
WEEK
>> I THINK YOU SHOULD NOT ONLY
KEEP UP THE PRESSURE, I THIN
YOU SHOULD INCREASE TH
PRESSURE, BECAUSE IT'S FINALLY
WORKING.
AND IF YOU GIVE IT UP NOW, WHE
YOU HAVE THAT PRESSURE, AND IRAN
DOESN'T EVEN TAKE A PART
DISMANTLE ONE CENTRIFUGE, WHAT
LEVERAGE WILL YOU HAVE WHE
YOU'VE EASED THE PRESSURE.
>>> ELSEWHERE OVERSEAS,
PASSENGER PLANE CARRYING 5
PEOPLE FROM MOSCOW CRASHED AND
CAUGHT FIRE WHILE LANDING IN THE
CITY OF KAZAN.
ALL 44 PASSENGERS AND 6 CREW
MEMBERS WERE KILLED.
>>> AT THE AIR SHOW IN DUBAI
BOEING ANNOUNCED THE SALE OF 225
OF ITS TRIPLE 7 JETLINERS.
THE DEAL IS VALUED AT AN
ESTIMATED $130 BILLION
THE PLANE EXPECTED TO BE I
SERVICE BY 2020 WILL CARRY A
ESTIMATED 400 PASSENGERS
IT'S SET TO BE 20% MORE FUEL
EFFICIENT THAN THE CURRENT 777
BOEING HAS BEEN PLAGUED IN
RECENT MONTHS BY BATTERY FIRES
ABOARD ITS 787 DREAMLINERS
>>> IN MEDICAL NEWS, EXPERTS
ISSUED ANOTHER STERN WARNING
THAT BACTERIA ARE EVOLVING TO BE
RESISTANT TO EVEN THE STRONGES
ANTIBIOTICS.
A SPECIAL EDITORIAL PUBLISHED IN
THE HEALTH JOURNAL "LANCET
WARNED THAT DRUG-RESISTANT SUPER
BUGS POSE SUCH A THREAT THAT THE
DEATH RATE FROM BACTERIA
INFECTIONS COULD RETURN TO THOSE
OF THE EARLY 20th CENTURY.
AN ESTIMATED 23,000 AMERICAN
DIE FROM DRUG-RESISTAN
INFECTIONS EACH YEAR
>>> AND DORIS LESSING, THE
OUTSPOKEN WRITER WHO WON THE
NOBEL PRIZE FOR LITERATURE A
THE AGE OF 88 DIED TODAY I
LONDON
HER BEST-KNOWN WORKS INCLUDE
"THE GOLDEN NOTEBOOK," "MEMOIR
OF A SURVIVOR," AND "THE SUMME
BEFORE THE DARK.
"THE GOLDEN NOTEBOOK" WAS NO
AVAILABLE IN FRANCE OR GERMANY
FOR MORE THAN A DECADE BECAUSE
OF ITS FRANK DISCUSSION ABOU
WOMEN'S SEXUALITY.
DORIS LESSING WAS 94
>>> A STORY BY REUTERS DETAILS
HOW HACKERS FROM THE GROUP KNOWN
AS ANONYMOUS BROKE INTO MULTIPLE
U.S. GOVERNMENT AGENCY COMPUTERS
AND STOLE SENSITIVE INFORMATIO
AND MAY STILL HAVE ACCESS.
FOR MORE, WE'RE JOINED NOW FRO
SAN FRANCISCO BY JOSEPH MENN
HE AUTHORED THE PIECE.
FIRST OF ALL, HOW SIGNIFICANT IS
THIS HACK?
>> WELL, IT'S OBVIOUSLY VERY
SIGNIFICANT.
THEY DON'T -- THERE ARE MULTIPLE
U.S. AGENCIES, INCLUDING VARIOUS
BITS OF THE U.S. ARMY.
THERE'S THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND AT THE
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY ALONE, WE
GOT AHOLD OF AN E-MAIL
INTERNALLY THAT SAYS THAT THEY
GOT ACCESS TO PERSONAL DETAILS
ON 100,000 PEOPLE AND OTHERS AND
BANK ACCOUNT INFORMATION O
120,000 EMPLOYEES.
>> SO THE IDEA THAT THEY STILL
HAVE A BACKDOOR OPEN, HOW DO
THEY DO THIS
>> THEY GOT INTO A PREVIOUSL
UNKNOWN FLAW IN A PIECE OF
SOFTWARE CALLED COLD FUSION,
WHICH IS USED TO RUN WEBSITE
MADE BY ADOBE.
THAT WAS BACK AS FAR AGO A
DECEMBER OF LAST YEAR.
AND THEY PUT IN A BACK DOOR FO
FUTURE ACCESS, SO EVEN AFTER
ADOBE FIXED THE PROBLEM, THE
WERE STILL ABLE TO HAVE ACCESS
AND THE FEDS DON'T KNOW HOW FA
ELSE THEY GOT, BUT THEY CLEARL
HAVE ONGOING ACCESS, AND A
LEAST IN SOME PLACES, THEY WER
PRETTY WORRIED ABOUT IT.
>> SO WHAT'S THE REAL DAMAGE
DONE HERE?
>> WELL, SO FAR, THE SAME GROU
BROKE INTO THE U.S. SENTENCING
COMMISSION AND POSTED A VIDE
THAT WAS CONDEMNING -- CALLING
FOR REFORMS OF ANTI-HACKIN
LAWS
IT'S ABOUT WHAT THEY SEE A
UNJUST SENTENCES FOR HACKERS
BUT WE REALLY DON'T KNOW WHA
ELSE THEY'RE GOING TO DO WIT
IT
THEY HAVE ALL OF THI
INFORMATION, THEY CAN USE IT FOR
IDENTITY THEFT, CAN IMPERSONAT
ARMY PERSONNEL AND GET ACCESS TO
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION THAT WAY.
THEY DON'T REALLY KNOW THE SCOPE
OF THE PROBLEM, BUT IT'S PRETT
BIG.
>> AND WHEN THEY DON'T KNOW TH
SCOPE OF IT, WHAT IS THE FBI
LIKELY TO DO
WHAT, IN THE MEMOS THAT YOU'VE
SEEN, WHAT ARE THEIR NEXT STEPS?
>> WELL, ONE OF THE THINGS
THEY'VE DONE IS WARN COMPUTE
ADMINISTRATORS AT VARIOU
FEDERAL AGENCIES TO LOOK FOR
SPECIFIC SIGNATURES IS, WHAT
THEY CALL, INDICATORS OF
COMPROMISE
SO THEY'RE GOING THROUGH
THEY'RE LOOKING, THEY'RE TRYIN
TO FIND THE HACKERS' TRACKS.
THEY MIGHT BE ABLE TO FIND THE
ALL, THEY MIGHT NOT.
IN THE MEANTIME, THEY'RE
CONTINUING A CRIMINA
INVESTIGATION.
THERE'S BEEN ONE PERSON INDICTED
IN THE UNITED KINGDOM AND HE'S
AWAITING EXTRADITION
THERE ARE OTHER CONSPIRATORS
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR.
>> IS THERE CONCERN ABOUT TH
SAFETY OF INFORMATION INSIDE
THESE AGENCIES TODAY
>> YEAH, ABSOLUTELY, THERE'S
HUGE CONCERN ABOUT IT.
>> ALL RIGHT
JOSEPH FROM REUTERS JOINING US
FROM SAN FRANCISCO, THANK YOU SO
MUCH
>> YOU BET
THANKS FOR HAVING ME
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT, IN DEPTH REPORTS ABOU
OFTEN UNDERREPORTED BU
IMPORTANT TOPICS
TONIGHT, A STORY THAT'S GOTTEN
ALMOST NO ATTENTION, THE MOS
SIGNIFICANT CHANGE TO THE HIGH
SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY EXAM IN MOR
THAN 70 YEARS.
THE IDEA IS TO BETTER PREPAR
THOSE TAKING THE EXAM FO
COLLEGE AND THE WORKPLACE, BUT
CRITICS SAY THE CHANGES BEIN
MADE GO TOO FAR, TOO FAST.
"NEWSHOUR" CORRESPONDENT CANDACE
REPORTS.
>> Reporter: 22-YEAR-OLD ROBER
COVINGTON SPENDS A LOT OF HI
TIME AT THE NEW HAVEN ADUL
EDUCATION CENTER
HE DROPPED OUT OF HIGH SCHOO
WHEN HE WAS 17 AND NOW HE'
TRYING TO MAKE UP FOR LOST TIME.
>> IT'S NOT 3.5.
I MADE MISTAKES WHEN I WAS
YOUNGER AND I JUST WANT TO B
ABLE TO BETTER MYSELF, BECOME
BETTER MAN AND THAT STARTS HER
WITH EDUCATION
>> Reporter: COVINGTON HAS
PASSED THE SCIENCE, SOCIAL
STUDIES, WRITING AND READING
SECTIONS OF THE GENERA
EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT EXAM, OR
THE GED.
THE NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED HIGH
SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY TEST.
NOW HE'S PRACTICING GEOMETRY
PROBLEMS SO HE CAN PASS THE MATH
SECTION.
HE'D LIKE TO START COMMUNITY
COLLEGE EARLY NEXT YEAR.
>> SO I HAVE TO PASS IT.
YEAH
>> Reporter: MANY LIKE HIM
ACROSS THE COUNTRY ARE RUSHING
TO TAKE THE GED NOW, BECAUSE
THIS JANUARY, A NEW VERSION OF
THE TEST WILL ROLL OUT AND ABOUT
40 STATES, INCLUDING
CONNECTICUT, ARE EXPECTED TO USE
IT
THE TEST WILL BE MORE RIGOROUS
WILL COST MORE IN SOME STATES,
AND ONLY BE AVAILABLE ONLINE
AND IF YOU NEED TO TAKE IT OVE
IN THE NEW YEAR, THEN WHAT
>> I'M JUST GOING TO HAVE TO
TAKE IT OVER, START FROM SQUAR
ONE.
>> WHAT WE'RE DOING IS
ABSOLUTELY THE MOST MONUMENTAL
CHANGE WE'VE MADE IN OUR GED
TESTING SERVICE IN HISTORY
I THINK WHAT WE'RE DOING I
COMPLICATED, IT'S CONFUSING,
IT'S WORRISOME, BUT WE'R
ABSOLUTELY CONVINCED THAT WHAT
WE'RE DOING IS THE RIGHT THING
FOR LEARNERS
>> Reporter: RANDY TRASK IS TH
PRESIDENT OF THE GED TESTING
SERVICE, THE FOR-PROFIT COMPAN
THAT'S DEVELOPING THE NEW EXAM
THE GED WAS CREATED IN 1942 FO
RETURNING VETERANS WHO DROPPED
OUT OF HIGH SCHOOL TO SERVE IN
WORLD WAR II AND WAS RUN BY TH
NONPROFIT AMERICAN COUNCIL O
EDUCATION.
>> AND IN THE 70 YEARS SINCE
THEN, OUR TEST TAKERS HAVE
EVOLVED QUITE A BIT, BUT WE NO
HAVE MORE THAN 19 MILLION PEOPLE
WHO HAVE HAD TO EARN THEIR
SECOND CHANCE AT A HIGH SCHOOL
CREDENTIAL BY WAY OF THE GED
TEST
>> Reporter: THE GED HAS BEEN AN
IMPORTANT TOOL FOR HIGH SCHOOL
DROPOUTS AND IMMIGRANTS TO MAK
INROADS TO HIGHER EDUCATION OR
SECURE BETTER JOBS
ABOUT 700,000 TAKE IT EVER
YEAR, BUT ONLY ABOUT 36% O
THOSE WHO PASS THE GED ENROLL IN
A TWO OR FOUR-YEAR COLLEGE
THAT'S LOW COMPARED TO 66% O
HIGH SCHOOL GRADS WHO ENROLL
AND OVERALL, THOSE WITH A HIGH
SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY DEGREE EARN
LESS THAN THOSE WITH A REGULAR
HIGH SCHOOL DEGREE
TRASK SAYS FIGURES LIKE THE THAT
COMPELLED THE COUNCIL IN 2011 TO
PARTNER WITH PEARSON, AN
EDUCATION SERVICES COMPANY
THEY FORMED A JOINT VENTUR
UNDER NAME, GED TESTING SERVICE,
AND HIRED RANDY TRASK TO
OVERHAUL THE GED
WHAT IS IT THAT WAS LACKING IN
THE OLD EXAM
>> IF YOU THINK ABOUT WHAT WE'VE
BEEN TESTING HISTORICALLY, WE'VE
BEEN TESTING KNOWLEDGE, AND WHAT
EMPLOYERS ARE TELLING US AND
WHAT COLLEGES ARE TELLING US I
THAT IT'S LESS ABOUT THE
KNOWLEDGE AND MORE ABOUT BEING
ABLE TO USE WHAT YOU KNOW TO
DEMONSTRATE CRITICAL THINKIN
SKILLS AND SOLVE REAL-WORL
PROBLEMS
OUR NEW TEST -
>> Reporter: TRASK SAYS IN ORDER
TO KEEP UP WITH THE TIMES, THE
TEST GOING FORWARD WILL ONLY B
ADMINISTERED BY COMPUTER
IT WILL BE MORE RIGOROUS T
REFLECT NEW ACADEMIC STANDARDS
THAT HIGH SCHOOLS IN MANY STATES
HAVE ALREADY ADOPTED TO PREPAR
STUDENTS FOR COLLEGE OR TH
WORKFORCE.
>> TAKE MATH, FOR EXAMPLE.
CAN YOU USE THAT TO SOLVE
PROBLEM THAT'S INTERESTING T
THE EMPLOYER
FOR EXAMPLE, CAN YOU GO IN USING
SOME BASIC ALGEBRA TO ADJUST
PRICING FOR A STORE?
IT'S THE APPLICATION OF TH
KNOWLEDGE THAT BECOMES MUCH MORE
IMPORTANT THAN THE ORIGINA
KNOWLEDGE WE TESTED.
>> I WAS DEFINITELY A NAYSAYER
INITIALLY, A SKEPTIC
AND I THOUGHT, WHAT ARE THEY
THINKING
>> HOW DO WE KNOW IT'S A PRESENT
TENSE VERB
>> Reporter: MARY McNEARY IS A
GED INSTRUCTOR AT THE NEW HAVE
ADULT EDUCATION CENTER
TODAY THE LESSON IS ON USING
CORRECT VERB TENSES.
>> I WAS WORRIED
I WAS THINKING, OH, MY GOD
ARE MY STUDENTS REALLY GOING T
PASS THIS TEST
AND THEN IT'S THE USE OF A
COMPUTER
YOU KNOW, FOR A LOT OF THE YOUNG
PEOPLE, NO PROBLEM
THEY'RE HAPPY IT'S ON
COMPUTER
FOR THE PEOPLE IN THEIR 40s,
50s, 60s, THEY'RE, OH, MY GOD,
IT'S ANOTHER OBSTACLE.
>> Reporter: ONE OF HER STUDENTS
IS 56-YEAR-OLD ROSEVELD BARNES
HE DROPPED OUT OF HIGH SCHOOL TO
JOIN THE MILITARY.
HE THEN WORKED AS AN
ELECTRICIAN.
BUT LATELY HE SAYS FINDING WOR
HAS BEEN HARD.
NOW HE NEEDS TO PASS THE GED
EXAM TO GO TO COMMUNITY COLLEGE.
HE WANTS TO EVENTUALLY OPEN UP
AN AUTO REPAIR BUSINESS.
SO YOU'VE BEEN TAKING CLASSE
HERE AND YOU FIND OUT THAT THE
NEW TEST ELECTIONS B
ADMINISTERED BY COMPUTER
WAS IT INTIMIDAING AT FIRST?
>> YES, BECAUSE I'M COMPUTER
ILLITERATE
NOW THAT I'M DOING CLASSES AND
STUFF, THEY ALSO HAVE COMPUTER
TRAINING
>> Reporter: THIS HAS PUSHED YOU
TO LEARN MORE?
>> YES
>> Reporter: AND WILE THE STAT
OF CONNECTICUT HAS EMBRACED TH
NEW GED EXAM, EDUCATIO
OFFICIALS JUST ONE STATE OVER IN
NEW YORK HAVE SERIOU
RESERVATIONS ABOUT IT.
SO YOUR REACTION WAS WHAT?
>> TOO FAR, TOO FAST
>> Reporter: KEVIN SMITH IS TH
DEPUTY COMMISSIONER FOR ADUL
CAREER AND CONTINUING EDUCATIO
FOR NEW YORK STATE
HE AGREES THE EXAM NEEDED TO
ADAPT TO A CHANGING WORLD.
BUT HE SAYS THE NEW VERSIO
THREATENS TO LEAVE TOO MAN
PEOPLE BEHIND.
>> Reporter: ONE OF THE CONCERNS
YOU HAD IS THE NEW GED TEST IS
GOING TO BE ADMINISTERED B
COMPUTER ONLY.
>> YES
>> Reporter: BUT ISN'T I
IMPORTANT TO PUSH PEOPLE INT
THE DIGITAL REALM?
>> ABSOLUTELY, WE WOULD CALL
THAT AN ASPIRATIONAL GOAL.
FOR US AND FOR THE TEST TAKER.
FOR THE TEST TAKER WHO HAS
LITTLE ACCESS TO BASIC COMPUTING
SKILLS OR LITTLE KNOWLEDGE O
BASIC COMMUTING SKILLS, IT'S ONE
MORE POINT, ONE MORE BARRIER T
THEIR ABILITY TO DEMONSTRATE
THEIR SKILLS
THERE ARE TOO MANY BARRIER
ALREADY, AND WE NEED TO BREA
THOSE BARRIERS DOWN ONE AT A
TIME
>> Reporter: AND EVEN IF NEW
YORK STATE WANTED TO USE THE NEW
GED EXAM, HE SAYS PRACTICA
CONSIDERATIONS WOULD MAKE IT
IMPOSSIBLE
>> EQUALLY IMPORTANT, OU
INFRASTRUCTURE TO PROVIDE THAT
TEST EXAM BY COMPUTER IS
NEGLIGIBLE
>> Reporter: SMITH ALSO SAYS THE
COST OF ADMINISTERING THE NE
EXAM IS PROHIBITED, SINCE IT
WOULD RISE FROM $60 TO $120 PE
TEST-TAKER IN NEW YORK
COSTS VARY AND SOME STATES
SUBSIDIZE A PORTION OF EXAM, BUT
BY LAW, NEW YORK WOULD HAVE TO
PAY FOR ALL OF IT.
AT LEAST EIGHT STATES HAVE OPTED
NOT TO USE THE NEW GED EXAM AT
ALL AND ARE PLANNING TO USE AN
ALTERNATIVE, INCLUDING NEW YORK,
WHICH HAS HIRED ANOTHE
EDUCATION SERVICE COMPANY, CTB
McGRAW HILL, A COMPETITOR OF THE
GED TESTING SERVICE.
ITS TEST WILL BE OFFERED ONLIN
AND ON PAPER
AND THE LEVEL OF DIFFICULTY WILL
INCREASE GRADUALLY OVER THRE
YEARS.
DO YOU THINK THAT THIS IS DOIN
A DISSERVICE AT ALL TO NEW
YORKERS, NOT TO BE PART OF WHA
MOST OTHER STATES ARE DOING?
>> NO, I DON'T
NO, I THINK QUITE THE OPPOSITE
I THINK IT'S DOING A SERVICE T
NEW YORKERS.
THIS IS A MUCH SLOWER, MOR
APPROPRIATE PHASE-IN TO THE NE
EXAM, THE NEW STANDARDS THAN W
ARE LED TO BELIEVE WILL OCCUR IN
THOSE OTHER 40 STATES UTILIZIN
THE GED EXAM
>> Reporter: WE'VE TALKED TO
PEOPLE WHO SAY THE TEST WAS NO
WORKING AS IT WAS.
BUT MAYBE THE CHANGES SHOULD
HAVE BEEN A LITTLE BIT SLOWER,
INCREMENTAL.
WHAT DO YOU SAY TO THAT?
>> WE'RE DOING NO ONE ANY FAVORS
IF WE DON'T, IN FACT, MAKE SUR
THAT THESE ADULTS ARE EQUIPPED
WITH EXACTLY WHAT THEY NEED TO
COMPETE FOR THES
HIGHER-SKILLED, HIGHER-WAG
JOBS
>> Reporter: TRASK POINTS OU
THAT THE COST OF THE NEW GED
INCLUDES ONLINE RESOURCES TO
FIND OUT ABOUT JOBS AND TRAINING
PROGRAMS
BACK AT THE NEW HAVEN ADUL
EDUCATION CENTER, MARY McNERNE
SAYS SHE'S COME TO EMBRACE THE
MISSION OF THE NEW GED TEST AN
SHE'S UP THE FOR THE CHALLENGE
ARE YOU CONCERNED THAT SOM
PEOPLE MAY NOT BE UP TO SPEED BY
NEXT YEAR?
>> IF I HAVE ANY CONCERNS THAT
SOME PEOPLE WILL NOT BE READ
THIS YEAR, WHICH MANY ARE NOT, I
BELIEVE IN MY HEART THAT THE
MAJORITY OF THEM WILL BE ABLE TO
WORK THROUGH THE CURRICULUM TO
EVENTUALLY GET THEIR GED
>> Reporter: AS FOR ROBERT
COVINGTON, HE TOOK THE REMAINING
SECTION OF THE EXAM LAST
WEEKEND.
HE COULD FIND OUT IF HE PASSED
AS EARLY AS NEXT WEEK.
>> HOW WOULD YOU DO ON THE GED
ANSWER TEN QUESTIONS FROM TH
CURRENT EXAM
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> THE SHRIMPING SEASON IS
LITTLE MORE THAN HALFWAY OVER IN
LOUISIANA.
BACK IN 2007, A GIANT ASIA
STRIPED SHRIMP KNOWN AS TH
TIGER SHRIMP INVADED THE GULF OF
MEXICO AND THEY HAVE BEEN THER
EVER SINCE
THE CONCERN IS THAT THEY MIGHT
HARM LOUISIANA'S
MULTI-BILLION-DOLLAR SHRIMPING
INDUSTRY
LOUISIANA PUBLIC BROADCASTING'
CHARLIE WINHAM REPORTS
>> Reporter: COMMERCIA
FISHERMAN CASEY JUNIOR IS IN THE
MIDDLE OF A VERY PRODUCTIV
SHRIMP SEASON.
BUT IN ADDITION TO HIS REGULAR
CATCH OF NATIVE WHITE AND BROW
SHRIMP, COOPER ALSO CATCHING A
LARGER INVASIVE SPECIES CALLED
TIGER SHRIMP
HE SAYS HE CAUGHT HIS FIRS
TIGER SHRIMP ABOUT FOUR YEAR
AGO.
HOW MANY HAVE YOU BEEN CATCHIN
LATELY
>> SOMETIMES I CATCH THREE, FOUR
A NIGHT.
IT ALL DEPENDS ON WHAT AREAS W
GO IN.
>> Reporter: THE FIRST TIGER
SHRIMP WAS CAUGHT OFF OF
LOUISIANA'S COAST IN 2007 IN
VERMILLION BAY
THEY CAN GROW TWICE AS BIG A
NATIVE SHRIMP AND ARE MORE
AGGRESSIVE
THERE ARE CONCERNS THAT TH
TIGER SHRIMP COULD OUT-COMPETE
WHITE AND BROWN SHRIMP FOR
RESOURCES.
THAT'S A SERIOUS ISSUE WHEN YO
CONSIDER LOUISIANA'S $2.
BILLION COMMERCIAL SHRIMPING
INDUSTRY
>> WE JUST WONDER HOW THEY GOT
IN OUR WATERS AND WHERE DID THEY
COME FROM?
IS THERE ENOUGH OF THEM AROUND
THE COAST TO WHERE WE HAVE T
WORRY ABOUT IT RIGHT NOW
I DON'T THINK SO
BUT I THINK IN THE FUTURE, I
MAY BE AN ISSUE.
>> Reporter: TIGER SHRIMP AR
ONE OF THE MOST FARMED SHRIM
SERIES WORLDWIDE
IN 1988, A BATCH OF ASIAN TIGE
SHRIMP ESCAPED FROM A RESEARCH
LAB OFF OF SOUTH CAROLINA'
COAST, LEADING TO A SURGE IN
NUMBERS.
THE SHRIMP HAVE BEEN REPORTE
SPORADICALLY ALONG THE ATLANTI
COAST OVER TWO DECADES AND HAV
BEEN SEEN IN THE GULF OF MEXIC
FOR ABOUT SIX YEARS.
FROM 2006 TOO 2010, THERE WERE
110 REPORTS OF TIGER SHRIMP IN
THE U.S.
HOWEVER, A LARGE UPTICK FOLLOWED
WHERE 145 WERE FOUND I
LOUISIANA.
LESS THAN 300 WERE REPORTED LAST
YEAR, BUT OFFICIALS BELIEV
FEWER FISHERMAN WERE CALLING
THEM IN, BECAUSE IT WAS LESS O
A NOVELTY TO SEE THE ASIAN
SHRIMP IN THEIR NETS
DEPARTMENT OF WILDLIFE AND
FISHERIES BIOLOGIST, ROB
BOURJOIS, IS KEEPING TRACK O
THE TIGER SHRIMP CATCHES I
LOUISIANA WATERS
>> THE REPORTS SEEM TO BE RANDOM
ACROSS THE COAST, YOU KNOW FRO
CALCASIEU ALL THE WAY TO
PONTCHARTRAIN BASIN, WE'RE
SEEING REPORTS THIS YEAR
THIS YEAR OUR NUMBERS ARE UP AND
WE DID DO A PRETTY GOOD JOB AT
GETTING THE WORD OUT T
FISHERMEN TO REPORT IT
SO OUR NUMBERS ARE HIGHER THAN
LAST YEAR AT THIS TIME
>> THE PROBLEM IS, THIS IS A
LARGER SHRIMP THAT EATS SMALLE
INVERTEBRATES, IT EATS SHRIM
AND TINY CRABS
SO NOT ONLY ARE YOU COMPETIN
FOR RESOURCES WITH OUR NATIV
SHRIMP, YOU'RE ALSO DIRECTLY
CONSUMING THEM
IT'S KIND OF A DOUBLE WHAMMY
AND THE BIGGER QUESTION TO ME,
THE GREATEST POTENTIAL PROBLEM
THE THE TRANSMISSION O
DISEASES
WE DO KNOW THAT THEY ARE CAPABLE
OF CARRYING SEVERAL DISEASES
THAT IT'S POSSIBLE TO TRANSMIT
TO WHITE SHRIMP OR BROWN SHRIMP,
WHICH THAT WOULD BE A DISASTER
>> Reporter: SHRIMPER A.C. JR.
SAYS HE'S CATCHING MORE THAN THE
LAST FEW YEARS
>> THEY ARE MATING, THEY ARE
BREEDING
>> Reporter: AT THIS POINT I
TIME, THE SITUATION IS
INCONCLUSIVE
IT LEADS SHRIMPERS TO STIL
REPORT TIGER SHRIMP CONTINUE
AND SCIENTISTS TO COLLECT MORE
DATA
THE RESEARCH ALSO CONTINUES IN
OTHER WAYS
>> HAVE YOU EATEN ANY OF THEM?
>> YEAH, THEY'RE GOOD.
TIGER SHRIMP ARE GOOD.
IN FACT, THEY'RE WORTH MOR
MONEY IN THE WORLD MARKET THAN
OURS
>> Reporter: REALLY?
>> YEAH, IF IT COMES TO TH
POINT WHERE WE HAVE MORE O
THEM, WE'LL SORT THEM OUT AN
SELL THEM SEPARATELY
>> Announcer: THIS IS "PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND SUNDAY.
>>> AS WE APPROACH THE 50t
ANNIVERSARY OF THE ASSASSINATION
OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY
YOU'RE SURE TO SEE AND HEAR
LOT ABOUT THAT TRAGIC DAY IN
DALLAS
WHAT YOU'LL HEAR MUCH LESS ABOUT
IS WHAT THE PRESIDENT DID TH
DAY BEFORE, IN HOUSTON
EDELL OF PUBLIC HOUSTON NEWS
REPORTS.
>> Reporter: IT'S A NORMAL
NOVEMBER DAY IN DOWNTOWN
HOUSTON, WAS IF YOU TURN BAC
THE CLOCK 50 YEARS TO NOVEMBER
21st, 1963, THE SAME STREE
TELLS A DIFFERENT STORY.
AS THE MOTORCADE YOU SEE BELONGS
TO PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY
WHILE THE PRESIDENT DIDN'T SPEND
HIS FINAL NIGHT HERE IN HOUSTON,
HIS VISIT ON NOVEMBER 21st ADDED
A FINAL CHAPTER TO HIS HISTORY
WITH THE BAYOU CITY.
>> WHAT MOST PEOPLE DON'
REALIZE IS HE SPENT THE PREVIOUS
DAY IN HOUSTON, ABOUT 75,000
PEOPLE CAME OUT TO VIE
KENNEDY'S TRIP FROM HOBB
AIRPORT TO THE HOTEL
>> Reporter: KENNEDY'S TRIP TO
HOUSTON WAS PART OF A MULTI-CITY
CAMPAIGN SWING THROUGH TEXAS
AND HIS TIME, DESPITE LASTIN
LESS THAN A DAY, WASN'T SHORT ON
NOTABLE MOMENTS.
>> WHILE HE WAS IN HIS ROOM AT
THE RICE HOTEL, HE HAD A VISIT
FROM THE PUBLISHER OF TH
"HOUSTON CHRONICLE," WHO SHOWE
HIM A POLL SAYING THAT HE WOUL
LOSE TEXAS BY 100,000 VOTES IF
THE ELECTION WERE HELD TODAY, TO
GOLDWATER.
AFTER HE WAS IN HIS ROOM, HE
STOPPED OFF AT A MEETING OF TH
LEAGUE OF UNITED LATIN AMERICA
CITIZENS, LULA, THAT WAS A
UNEXPECTED STOP.
JACQUELINE KENNEDY SAID A FE
WORDS IN SPANISH TO THE CROWD.
FOLLOWING THE LULAC BANQUET,
KENNEDY MADE ONE MORE STOP I
HOUSTON BEFORE HEADING THE T
FT. WORTH FOR THE NIGHT.
>> ALL THIS WEEK, YOU CAN SHAR
YOUR MEMORIES OF THE DAY
PRESIDENT KENNEDY WAS KILLED B
VISITING NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG.
>>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION
OF "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN, THANKS FOR
WATCHING
>> BUT WE'RE ABSOLUTEL